= Sem4r

Sem4r is a ruby library to access google adwords api, that works with ruby 1.9 and 1.8.

The Google AdWords Api (http://code.google.com/apis/adwords/) is a
webservice soap protocol. From the official site:

  The Google AdWords API lets developers build applications that interact directly
  with the AdWords platform. With these applications, advertisers and third
  parties can more efficiently and creatively manage their large or complex
  AdWords accounts and campaigns.

The official google adwords ruby library adwords4r doesn't work with ruby 1.9,
because uses soap4r. The soap4r is not supported by ruby 1.9.
Sem4r don't uses soap4r.

Main idea is to use a high level model instead of a low level api.
You think about clients, campaigns, keywords and not about operations, operands, service calls.
In the future, the library might decide which api use (sync or async) and when call it!

== Usage

To access adwords api you need:
  - email account  (for sandbox environment a gmail account <myaccount>@gmail.com)
  - password
  - developer token (for sandbox environment is like <myaccount>@gmail.com++EUR)

To access the sandbox environment

  adwords = Adwords.sandbox( :email => "<myaccount>@gmail.com", :password => "secret", :developer_token => "<myaccount>@gmail.com++EUR")

To print details about the current account:

adwords.account.p_info

You can list all client accounts:

  adwords.account.p_clients

See directory examples_sem4r[http://github.com/sem4r/sem4r/tree/master/examples_sem4r/examples_sem4r] for more examples.
Follow the sem4r.com[http://www.sem4r.com] feed for announcements of new releases.

== Ruby Versions

Sem4r last gem was tested on following rubies:

* 1.9.2-p0 - linux (works)
* jruby 1.5.5 - linux (some example are not working, certificate verify failed OpenSSL in sandbox)
* ...

== Install

  sudo gem install sem4r

== Api status

=== Campaign Data Management

* CampaignService: ...
* CampaignTargetService: ...
* AdGroupService: ...
* AdGroupAdService: ...
* CampaignAdExtensionService: ...
* AdExtensionOverrideService: ...
* CampaignCriterionService: ...
* AdGroupCriterionService: ...
* AdParamService: ...
* UserListService: ...

=== Optimization

* BidLandscapeService: ...
* ReportDefinitionService
* TargetingIdeaService
* TrafficEstimatorService

=== Account Management

* AlertService
* CustomerSyncService
* InfoService
* ServicedAccountService

=== Utility

* BulkMutateJobService
* GeoLocationService
* MediaService

== How to submit a bug report

...

== Contribute

So you want your prefered service supported by sem4r. Great! Please follow this steps:

* Fork the project
* Clone down your fork
* Create a topic branch to contain your change ( git checkout -b my_awesome_feature )
* Hack away, add tests. Not necessarily in that order.
* Make sure rspec tests passes by running rake
* Add an example of use of the new feature or service.
* Make sure all examples run without errors. This will take some time. ( rake sem4r:examples )
* If necessary, rebase your commits.
* Push the branch up ( git push origin my_awesome_feature )
* Send a pull request

== Contributors

If I miss someone send me[sem4ruby@gmail.com] a note.

* Glenn Gillen[http://github.com/rubypond]
* ...

To see all contributors execute: git shortlog -n -s --no-merges

== License

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2009 - 2010 {Sem4r}[http://www.sem4r.com]

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
